OSDOCS-2978: Upstream Kubernetes Overview (#47669)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/kubernetes-components.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * getting_started/kubernetes-overview.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="kubernetes-components_{context}"]
= Kubernetes components

.Kubernetes components
[cols="1,2",options="header"]
|===
|Component |Purpose

|`kube-proxy`
|Runs on every node in the cluster and maintains the network traffic between the Kubernetes resources.

|`kube-controller-manager`
|Governs the state of the cluster.

|`kube-scheduler`
|Allocates pods to nodes.

|`etcd`
|Stores cluster data.

|`kube-apiserver`
|Validates and configures data for the API objects.

|`kubelet`
|Runs on nodes and reads the container manifests. Ensures that the defined containers have started and are running.

|`kubectl`

> |Allows you to define how you want to run workloads. Use the `kubectl` command to interact with the `kube-api-server`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Allows you to define how you want to run workloads. Use the `kubectl` command to interact with the `kube-apiserver`.
```
